Well, that's pretty much all I wanted to
cover today as far as the curriculum and
walk you through Node.
The stuff I wanna leave you with
is what I recommend doing next and
how to take advantage of the community and
really how to get the best of it.
So, we did talk about
Frontend Master's Node API design.
I guess I should just look up my name,
that's what I should do.
Frontend Masters, Scott, there we go.
So I do have a course on here for
the API design a Node JS v3.
If you want to really get into it,
you can see I'm talking about a whole
bunch of APIs, databases, routes,
caching, crud, automations,
authentication, pretty much everything.
So this is a really good next step if
you want to just focus on building APIs.
There's also a really nice course on here.
I forgot what it's called exactly,
but I think it's by Jim Young.
It's about like, DevOps or
back end for front end engineers.
That one's really good,
I actually took that one.
It was really nice.
And then I also have
an introduction to MongoDB,
if that's what you're interested in
if you wanna learn how to do Mongo.
So check that one out as well.
So I recommend doing one of those.
There we go learn, learning paths, and
then you go down to Node,
bam, here you go.
Look at that, look at that guy,
who's that guy?
Yeah, Will Siddons has a really good one.
Look at this, this is a really great path
that's already, that's the one I was
looking for a full stack for for
engineers, v2, the capstone project.
So, I highly recommend going through this
if you're really interested in NodeJS.
I've taken a lot of these courses myself.
The instructors here are super talented.
So, check those out if you want to know
more, and you wanna do a deep dive.
But at this point,
you pretty much know more than the basics
of what it takes to build something.
Something that I like to do is I
like to take a small chunk of time,
whether it's 60 minutes or 90 minutes.
Especially in Node and like pick a
technology that I'm just not familiar with
in Node, whether it's like streams,
WebSockets, HTTPS, a different database.
And I'm like, all right, 60 minutes, build
the smallest thing you can make with this.
Whether it's following a HelloWorld
tutorial on the documentation website, or
watching a video.
I try to build the smallest thing that I
can and I try to do that multiple times.
And usually within a week, I really
understand that technology to the point
where I'm comfortable talking about it,
and it's no longer foreign to me.
And I might not be great at it,
but I'm no longer foreign.
And that's kinda how I
develop my knowledge, and
that's kinda how I move through things.
And then when I come across it in
the real world, and I use it at work,
that's when I develop a deep knowledge for
it.
So that's just some of the tips
that I wanted to pass on to you and
I don't know if that'll work or not,
but that's just how I do things.
Other than that, I can leave you with
some really cool JavaScript projects or
NodeJS projects that I
think are really cool.
So we have like NestJS,
which is a progressive NodeJS framework.
They have a cat, I mean, if that doesn't
sell for you, I don't know what will.
There're more cats.
So, try out NestJS.
If you ever use Angular two
you'll feel at home with NestJS,
it's a really good framework.
And then you have something called,
we talked about Hapi, so Hapi with an i.
This is another framework that
serves the same purposes Express but
just built differently.
So Hapi is a very good one.
And I would say another good one would be
looking at just serverless functions and
those are pretty much everywhere.
You have those in Netify,
Vercel, AWS, Google Cloud.
I mean, everyone has some type of
flavor of serverless functions.
I highly recommend checking those out.
I wouldn't say that they're great for
doing APIs, but
they're really great for doing one off
things that someone isn't waiting on.
So I would recommend it for that.
Other than that,
one thing that helped me out a lot was
I would go into the source code
of projects like Webpack or
Parcel or RollUp just to see
how these things worked.
Cuz they always seemed so magical to me,
I wanted to understand how they worked.
They're just written in JavaScript and
they do so much with the file system.
I would recommend just going through the
code and observing some of the patterns
and see if you can make sense
of what's actually happening.
And even if it's confusing,
you're gonna see something that I think,
might enlighten you
onto how this works and
might give you some inspiration on how you
can make some plugins or things like that.
And that's usually how I like to
start when I want to contribute.
And speaking of contributing, if you find
a package that you want to contribute to
whether it's React or something like that.
Did you know that if you go to GitHub, for
instance if I go to React, which obviously
is not going to give me what I want
it because it's like Facebook, React.
And you click on issues and
if you click on label and
you type in good first issue,
A lot of them really put
really good issues on here.
And sometimes they'll even put like
the answer that you can copy and
paste, I won't say answer,
the solution that you can copy and
paste cuz they really want to invite more
people to come in here and contribute.
So if you wanna get that nice
badge on your GitHub profile,
go to some of these big projects, see if
you can find one with a good first issue.
It might be something simple
as fixing a typo on a Readme,
and it says you're a contributor.
So it's a really good way to
get started in the community.
It's something that I did a couple
of years ago, and I don't regret it.
So, I highly recommend doing that
to contribute to the community, and
give back, and
start making your own stuff.
So, other than that,
does anyone have any other questions
about anything that we covered today?
>> A question about
upgrading NPM packages,
what's the best path forward?
>> [LAUGH] Every time I upgrade packages,
I'm always scared what's about to happen.
So I would say, don't just upgrade
a package because there's a new version.
Only upgrade the package if there's
something in the package that you need.
So, if you identify the fact that like,
this new version of this package that we
use came out and we need this feature,
because you gotta think about it
depends on what type of upgrade it is.
If it's a major upgrade, a major version
went from version 7 to version 8,
that means there's a breaking change.
So you need to identify what
that breaking change is and
determine how bad is gonna be for
you to refactor in your app.
Like for instance,
if React came out tomorrow and
was like, we don't use we don't use
JSX anywhere, we use this other thing.
Okay, imagine how many components you'd
have to refactor to use this other thing.
So you probably wouldn't want to upgrade,
right?
So you just don't want to upgrade
all the time simply because there's
a better version.
So, identify if you need it, and
then if you do wanna upgrade,
you can actually just type in NPM updates
followed by the package, so using Express.
So if you do like NPM update,
followed by the package,
it'll update that package for you.
And it'll save it and
do the config file and all that stuff.
But again, that's only if you've
identified that you need to update.
That's what the lock files are for,
to make sure you're always
on the locked in version.
And that way you guarantee
that there aren't any bugs.
Because the last thing you want is an
update causing you a bug that you didn't
find out until after your user
found it when you deployed it.
So be cautious of that.
>> I believe you covered this
earlier in the course so
you don't need to repeat yourself,
but in case you didn't.
What's the best way to import ES
module package into a common JS one?
>> The best way to import an ES
module into a common JS one is,
in that case it wouldn't be any different.
You will still use require and
you would have to determine
if was it a default exports.
So, if they did,
where am I doing
[INAUDIBLE],
here,
here, here we go.
Inside of a non ES file, so
it'll look something like this right?
It'll literally look the same.
It'll be like this.
Like that, except for it'll say = require.
So this will work the same as the non ES
equivalent, cuz that's a named export.
Now, if this wasn't names, and
this was a default one, as in, like,
if we just did FS, which also works,
then this will also be the same.
It would be FS.
So it's pretty much the same.
You just swap the import of a var,
a lit, or a const, and
you swap the from with the require.
Everything else should stay the same when
you're coming from ES modules to common.
It's the other way around that
you have to watch out for.
It's like, well, hold on now there's no
concept of default exports or common JS.
So if you tried to import a default,
it might not work.
So you gotta figure that part out.
But, yeah, that's how you do that.
>> For this next question, I will say that
we do have a webassembly course by Gem, so
you should check that out.
But this person's asking if you
personally have experience with importing
a webassembly module from a compiled
from a different language into Node and
using it.
And what's your thoughts on that?
>> That's a really good question.
Unfortunately, I have no experience
importing webassembly into Node and
that's simply because I just
haven't had a reason to yet.
Don't get me wrong,
it sounds interesting, and amazing.
But I'm one of those people
where I'm very problem driven.
And I just haven't ran into a problem yet
that webassembly is gonna help me solve.
And it's mostly also because
I'm a product person.
I like to just focus on building
products that people love and
the technology behind it is
not that important to me.
It's mostly just something that I can use
really fast to get things done really fast
and really quick to test them out.
So yeah, for
that reason I haven't tried webassembly.
Although I am up to date on what it is and
how to use it and why it's here.
But, I think Jim Young's course
will probably be better and
I would imagine he would have a way
better answer to that question and
give a better opinion than
what I currently just did.
>> What's your opinion on TypeScript
in Node, have used TypeScript?
>> Yeah.
>> You think there's a lot of value in it
on the back end?
>> I believe TypeScript is the future,
to be honest.
I mean,
Dino is literally TypeScript native.
So I literally write
everything in TypeScript.
It actually feels weird right now
writing something in JavaScript.
I haven't written non typed
files in a long time.
So, I love TypeScript,
using it on Node is amazing.
It's not native.
So you would have to compile that
with like the TSC command line,
which is the TypeScript compiler
command line instead of a config file,
TS config file to do that.
But other than that,
yeah, it's really cool.
You can actually use Babel now,
Babel supports TypeScript, Babel 7.
So you could do that as well, either
of which you would need to compile it.
But, there is just as much value
on the back end with TypeScript as
there is on the front end.
And maybe even more,
because there's no visual representation
of what you're getting on the back end.
So at least on the front end,
you can go like, I'm using a React box.
What does it look like?
You can just use it and
see what it looks like.
It's a box but you can't really see
what it looks like on the server.
So having that TypeScript kind
of be your eyes about what
is the IO between this method and
yours, it's really nice.
So, I highly recommend using TypeScript
whenever you can, in my opinion.
Because you could use TypeScript and
not use any types and
it's still just like
the latest JavaScript.
And also on that point I just remembered,
so
I've talked about using like MJS files and
JavaScript files.
But that's only if you want to use
ECMO script modules natively in Node.
If you do something like Babel or
TypeScript,
then you can use the ECMO script files
without the MJS and all that nonsense.
Because those tools actually fix that for
you, right, they handle the modules and
stuff for you in the interrupt.
So this is just if you don't
want to build a compiler, but
if you use a transpiler,
like Babel or TypeScript, then no,
you don't have to worry about
oil MJS versus JS Node.
No, you can just call it JS and
you can use the module syntax because
it's not Node that's processing that.
By the time Node reads it,
it's going to be the output of that,
which will probably just be common JS.
Awesome, I appreciate everyone
coming to this course.
I'm glad I got the chance to come in and
update it.
I hope you got some value from it.
There's anything else I could do
hit me up on Twitter at Scottups,
I respond on Twitter all the time.
If I can spell my own thing.
So hit me up on there if there's anything
I can do for you, or even on LinkedIn,
I'm pretty responsive on there as well.
And, yeah, I hope you continue
on with your Node stuff.
Let me know if this was helpful for you,
if you got some value out of it and
what you've done in your job.
And how I could potentially make
this better for the next one, or
maybe I'll do an advanced course on Node.
Who knows, let me know,
any feedback will be great.
And again, thanks for coming.